

===== PAGE 1 =====
 1 
BSCCS FINAL -YEAR PROJECT  
STUDENT GUIDELINES: PART 2  (TIMETABLE AND ASSESSMENT)  
DEPARTMENT OF COMPUTER SCIENCE, CITY UNIVERSITY OF HONG KONG  
 
1 INTRODUCTION 
2 PROJECT TIMETABLE 
2.1 Outline of Activities to be Completed 
2.2 Deferral of Deadline Dates 
2.3 Special arrangement for BSCU2 
2.4 Special arrangement for Overseas Exchange 
3 ASSESSMENT 
3.1 Marking Scheme 
3.2 The Examining Body 
3.2.1 The Supervisor 
3.2.2 The First Reader 
3.2.3 The Second Reader 
3.2.4 The Presentation Assessors 
3.2.5 The Project Coordinator 
4 PROJECT PLAN 
5 PROJECT MANAGEMENT 
5.1 General Concepts 
5.2 Monthly Log 
6 INTERIM REPORT I 
7 INTERIM REPORT II 
8 DEMONSTRATION 
9 FINAL REPORT 
10 PRESENTATION 
 
 
 

===== PAGE 2 =====
 2 
1 INTRODUCTION  
In the final year of the BSc(H) in Computer Science (BSCCS) you have to undertake a project. The purpose of 
the project is to allow you to demonstrate your knowledge of, and capability in, the subjects taught in the 
programme. At the same time the project requires you to demonstrate your problem solving skills, skills of 
time and resource management and of independent thinking; and an ability to communicate your interesting 
and/or novel ideas and solutions to others. Each of those items will be dealt with i n more detail in later 
sections. 
The project is an important part of the BSCCS programme. It is compulsory for full -time students and optional 
for part-time students. Producing programs which you can show are working correctly constitutes an 
essential part of the project, without which it may be difficult to achieve a pass. These programs will normally 
show that the solution which has been designed by you will actually solve the problem which has been posed 
by you. However, the reverse is also true, in that working programs, which effectively show that the problem 
cannot be solved by your proposed method, are acceptable (and are thus valid for all grades of pass).  
2  PROJECT TIMETABLE  
2.1   OUTLINE OF ACTIVITIES TO BE COMPLETED  
The following table shows the timeline for assessment activities to be completed during the FYP.  
Semester Due Date Activity Expected Progress 
Preceding 
Semester B 
Week 5 - 13 Project Proposal Generating idea, finding supervisor. 
Semester A Week 4 Submission of Project Plan Consolidating idea, initial literature review, 
feasibility study. 
Week 11 Submission of Interim 
Report I 
Detailed literature review, preliminary design 
of the proposed system. 
Semester B Week 4 Submission of Interim 
Report II 
System implementation, preliminary testing 
and analysis. 
Week 11 Submission of Final Report Complete system implementation, complete 
testing and analysis. 
Week 12 Oral presentation & 
Project demonstration 
Demonstration of outcome and deliverables. 
Exact calendar dates and detailed procedures for report submissions and presentations will be announced by 
the Project Coordinator in due course.  
2.2  DEFERRAL OF DEADLINE DATES  
If you have encountered personal problems that seriously affect your ability to ac hieve normal progress in 
your project work, you should immediately discuss your situation with your Supervisor. In addition, you might 
also seek advice from your Academic Advisor. 

===== PAGE 3 =====
 3 
When the problems persist and you foresee no reasonable chance of meeting th e deadline date, you may 
apply for a deferral, based on valid reason(s). In this case, you need to: 
• Make available supporting documents (e.g. letters from employers, medical certificates, etc).  
• Obtain written endorsement from your Supervisor. 
• Write to the Project Coordinator to apply for a deferral, with the supporting documents and your 
Supervisor's endorsement. 
• The Project Coordinator will make the final decision to approve the deferral or not. 
Applications for deferrals must be made more than two weeks before the relevant deadline date. 
Applications made less than two weeks before the deadline will be ignored.   
In general, the following are not valid reasons for deferring a deadline: 
• Accidently deleted or lost files (Students should regularly backup their work). 
• System software failure (Students should regularly backup their system).  
• Equipment failure, unless the equipment is difficult to replace. 
• Lack of access to system/equipment (FYP is a year-long course and there is ample time to arrange 
access to equipment either physically or remotely). 
• Didn't know about the deadline. 
• High workload because of other coursework. 
Make sure that you keep backup copies of all your work to prevent data loss.  Also plan your schedule 
accordingly and leave enough time for your FYP.  
2.3  SPECIAL ARRANGEMENT FOR BSCU2  
For students who take FYP and placement in the same year, request for extension of project submission must 
be filed in the Week 12 of Semester A (placement year). It is important to note that the extension w ill result in 
delay of graduation date to Oct of same academic year. The revised project timetable is as follows: 
Semester Week Activity 
Semester A Week 4 Submission of Project Plan 
Week 11 Submission of Interim Report I 
Summer Week 2 Submission of Interim Report II 
Week 6 Submission of Final Report 
Week 7 Oral presentations & Project demonstration 
Note: The special arrangement is only applied to BSC3 and BSC2 students. For other students who also take 
FYP and placement in the same year, special approval must be granted from FYP Coordinator and Academic 
Advisor in the week-12 of Semester A for this arrangement. 
 
2.4  SPECIAL ARRANGEMENT FOR OVERSEAS EXCHANGE  

===== PAGE 4 =====
 4 
Students who take FYP and also go on overseas exchange in the same year may defer their FYP up to 2 months 
subject to the following conditions:  
1) Provide justification and support by the supervisor. 
2) Student is taking a minimum of 12 credit units at the overseas institution. 
3) Student obtained a minimum of B- on: 
a. Interim Report I, for students on Semester A exchange. 
b. Interim Report II, for students on Semester B exchange.  
If the above conditions are met, a student on Semester A exchange can defer the deadline for Interim Report II 
and Final Report/Demo, and a student on Semester B exchange can defer the deadline for the Final 
Report/Demo. For these cases, the Final Presentations will be scheduled in July.  Students can request for 
deferral after the announcement of the result of the relevant Interim Report.  A summary of the deferred 
schedule for exchange students is below: 
Exchange in Semester A Exchange in Semester B Activity 
Semester A, Week 4 Semester A, Week 4 Submission of Project Plan 
Semester A, Week 11 Semester A, Week 11 Submission of Interim Report I 
Semester B, Week 12 Semester B Week 4 Submission of Interim Report II 
Summer, Week 1 Summer, Week 1 Submission of Final Report 
Summer, Week 7 Summer, Week 7 Oral presentations & Project demonstration 
Normally exchange students are not allowed to register CityU courses during the exchange period and thus 
students will be registered in CS4514 in the following Summer Term (i.e., Sem A + Summer OR Sem B + 
Summer) so that these students could be graded in Summer Term. Note that the extension will result in delay 
of graduation date to Oct of next academic year. 
No extension: In case an exchange student would like to complete the FYP by the end of Semester B (i.e. not 
extend to the Summer), they have to make a request to the department for special approval.  The department 
will then register the student for CS4514 in Sem A/B as appropriate, and the student’s FYP will be graded in 
Sem B. Students need to email two CS staff, csbsproj@cityu.edu.hk (for handling FYP deadlines) and 
zoechan@cityu.edu.hk (for handling the special request). 
Sem A Exchange and EN4262: FYP students are required to take EN4262 in Sem A with their FYP. However, 
students who go on exchange in Sem A will not be able to take EN4262 during their FYP. In this ca se, students 
may opt to take EN4262 one year earlier (prior Sem A) if they have a substantial ongoing project, e.g., 
Research Mentorship Scheme (RMS) or Guided Study (CS4552), with special approval from CS. If you would like 
to take EN4262 prior to FYP, please contact zoechan@cityu.edu.hk. 
3 ASSESSMENT  
3.1  MARKING SCHEME  
The marking scheme for projects is in the below table. Details for each item can be found in the following 
sections. 

===== PAGE 5 =====
 5 
Project Marking Scheme  
Project Plan 5% 
Interim Report I 5% 
Interim Report II 5% 
Project Management 5% 
Technical Merit 40% 
Final Report 25% 
Presentation 10% 
Demonstration 5% 
Important Note: The FYP is a demonstration of the student’s ability to design, implement, and test a system to 
solve a problem. Implementation is essential for FYP. Hence, an FYP without an implementation (working 
source code) will receive a failing grade. 
For group projects, group members are mainly assessed individually according to the above marking scheme. 
Each group member must submit their own reports detailing their own contributions to the project. For group 
projects, there are 10% marks that are assessed as a group: 1) 5% marks are for Group Demonstration, 
showing the full working system, as well as each student’s component; 2) 5% of the technical marks will assess 
the full system (design integration, implementation, and system testing ). The group project marking scheme is 
summarized as follows: 
Group Project Marking Scheme  
Project Plan (Individual) 5% 
Interim Report I (Individual) 5% 
Interim Report II (Individual) 5% 
Project Management (Individual) 5% 
Technical Merit (Individual) 35% 
Technical Merit (Group) 5% 
Final Report (Individual) 25% 
Presentation (Individual) 10% 
Group Demonstration (Group) 5% 
 
3.2  THE EXAMINING BODY  
The projects will be examined by the supervisor, two independent internal examiners (the First and Second 
Readers) and two presentation assessors. The First Reader will be familiar with the domain of the project. The 

===== PAGE 6 =====
 6 
Second Reader need not be. The presentation assessors must not be the project supervisor. The roles of the 
Supervisor and these examiners/assessors are outlined below.  Group projects: to maintain consistency of 
grading, the same first reader and same second reader will be assigned to assess all students in the same 
group project. 
3.2.1  THE SUPERVISOR  
The supervisor guides the student during the duration of the project and monitors the development part of it.  
The Supervisor is the sole assessor of the student's Project Plan, Interim Reports and Project Management, and 
also assesses the Technical Merit, Final Report and Demonstration of the project in a similar way to that 
outlined below for the First Reader. 
3.2.2  THE FIRST READER  
The First Reader allocates marks for the Technical Merit, Final Report and Demonstration. They are expected 
to have reasonable knowledge of the general area of the project's topic. They assesses the extent to which the 
student's performance complies with, or surpasses, the stated objectives.  
3.2.3  THE SECOND READER  
Second Readers act as moderators of the assessment results presented by the Supervisors and First Readers. 
They might choose to attend selected presentations or demonstrations. Their recommended final marks are 
decisive unless there are extenuating circumstances made available to the Project Committee to rule 
otherwise.  
3.2.4  THE PRESENTATION ASSESSORS  
The 1st and 2nd presentation assessors will assess the student's presentation performance based on such 
factors as organization, preparation, effectiveness in delivering the content, style, pacing, body language and 
Q&A performance. 
3.2.5  THE PROJECT COORDINATOR  
After the project work has been assessed, the Project Coordinator receives the recommended marks from the 
Second Readers. If there is a lack of agreement among the Supervisor and Readers, the Project Coordinator 
refers the project to the Project Committee for a final decision.  
4 PROJECT PLAN  
Once your project has been accepted and you have been allocated a supervisor, yo ur next task will be to draw 
up your project plan. The purpose of this plan is to demonstrate a structured and organized approach to your 
project. What is sought is evidence that the project has been sufficiently well planned to give confidence that 
your objectives will probably be attained within the time scale which is available. 
A clear understanding of the problem and its sub-problems will be essential before you can plan your work 
efficiently. This understanding will, naturally, be an improvement on th e outline which you gave in your initial 
proposal, as it will have been refined by the reading and other learning which you have achieved since its 

===== PAGE 7 =====
 7 
acceptance. During the project planning phase, you should therefore consult the relevant literature and 
discuss with the supervisor in greater detail the nature of the problem which you intend to solve.  
The project plan must be submitted online to FYPMS. Your supervisor will give feedback and recommendation 
for changes. You should revise the project plan according to the suggestion from supervisor. 
The project plan should include the following items: 
• Motivation & background information 
o What problem is being addressed, and why is it important?  
o What are previous approaches? What areas need to be improved?  
• Problem statement, project objectives & scope 
o What is the problem the project is aiming to address? 
o What are the specific goals of the project? 
o What is the scope of the project? What are the assumptions or constraints? What cases will 
not be considered? 
• Major technical components 
o What are the major technical components required for the project?  
o Give an overview of the system to be implemented. 
o Give a short description of each component and how it will function.  
• Expected results & deliverables 
o How will you test the implemented system? What are the expected results? 
o What are the final deliverables? This may depend on the type of project, e.g., website, 
mobile app, a new algorithm, a new theory, etc. 
• Project schedule 
o What is the project timeline? What are the milestones? 
o Include a Gantt chart. 
For group projects: each student must write and submit their own project plan. The project plan should mainly 
focus on the student’s own work in the group project.  If part of the project plan contains work to be done by 
other group members, it should be explicitly stated in the text. 
5 PROJECT MANAGEMENT  
5.1  GENERAL CONCEPTS  
Your progress against your plan will be monitored by your Supervisor  and coordinated by the Project 
Coordinator. You are therefore required to make decisions about how much time you need to spend on your 
project in relation to: 
• The workload in the project itself, and 
• The workload in other courses you are taking simultaneously. 
You are expected to report to your Supervisor. Meetings should be conducted on a regular basis. The 
frequency of those meetings is expected to be higher at the beginning and towards the end of the project. It is 
your responsibility to contact your Supervisor and arrange the meetings. 
At each of your sessions with your Supervisor you will report your progress, explain any difficulties you are 
having, and discuss the ways in which you can achieve progress by the next meeting.  

===== PAGE 8 =====
 8 
Do not expect your Supervisor to tell you what you should be doing next, as one criterion that will be taken 
into account in the final assessment of your work is the degree to which you can show your own initiative in 
arriving at the solutions to problems in implementing the tasks id entified in the project plan. As often as 
possible, come to the meetings not only with progress reports and current problems to be solved, but also 
with several alternative solutions for each of those problems so that your Supervisor can guide you in your 
choice between them.  
5.2  MONTHLY LOG  
You are required to submit a monthly log at the end of each month via the FYPMS. The purpose is to keep a 
systematic record of your progress throughout the two semest ers. Thus, it should be a brief description of 
your project activities during the past month. It can be in point form and should normally contain no more 
than 200 words. 
Timely submission of monthly log is an important aspect that indicates your satisfacto ry progress in that 
month. Failure to do so will seriously affect your mark on "project management".  
6 INTERIM REPORT I  
It is expected that this report will document the background studies in details, including constraints and main 
alternatives of the problem, and the proposed solution and how it differs from the existing approaches. The 
report should include detailed descriptions about the proposed solution, and how it addresses the various 
constraints of the problem. Your supervisor's feedback about the pro ject plan should be addressed in the 
interim report. The following items are expected for Interim Report I: 
• Introduction 
o Contains a clear statement of the aims and objectives of your project: 
o Problem definition & scope 
o Problem significance & motivation 
• Literature Review 
o Major alternatives of the problem, with appropriate references. 
o Status and limitations of the current alternatives. 
o Put your project in the context of the current state of the art in your subject domain, and 
justify and explain the importance of your project work. 
• Preliminary design, solution, and system 
o A thorough description of the preliminary design of the proposed solution.  
o It should include detailed descriptions of all system components and algorithms, and how 
they interact with each other. 
o As appropriate, include system diagrams, use case diagrams, etc.  
o Also include how the proposed solution will be tested: the testing procedures, experiment 
setup and design. 
• Plan and schedule for implementation and testing 
o Include details about how the solution will be implemented. 
o Include a Gantt chart showing the implementation and testing timeline.  
• Monthly logs must be attached 
For group projects: each student must write and submit their own Interim Report I.  The Interim Report I 
should mainly focus on the student’s own work in the group project.  If part of the report contains work 
performed by other group members, it should be explicitly stated in the text (e.g., in the Section titles).  

===== PAGE 9 =====
 9 
7 INTERIM REPORT II  
It is expected that this report will be a substantial document that presents the design, methodology and 
implementation of your work. In addition, the report should contain revisions to the Introduction, Literature 
Review, and Proposed Design according to your supervisor's feedback for Interim Report I. The following items 
are expected for Interim Report II: 
• A final title & abstract for the project 
• Summary of revisions and additions since Interim Report I 
o Summarize what revisions you have made to address your supervisor's feedback. 
o Summarize what additions have been made. 
• Introduction 
o See description for Interim Report I. 
• Literature review 
o See description for Interim Report I. 
• Proposed design, solution, system 
o See description for Interim Report I. 
• Detailed methodology and implementation 
o Details about the implementation, including: UML diagrams, database diagrams/schemas, 
algorithm listing. 
o Details about the testing procedure, including: test cases, experiment design and setup.  
o Details about any problems that arose and non-standard methodology required to solve 
them. 
• Preliminary result and future improvement 
o Preliminary testing results.  
o Parts of the system identified for further improvement. 
• Monthly logs must be attached 
For group projects: each student must write and submit their own Interim Report II. The Interim Report II 
should mainly focus on the student’s own work in the group project.  If part of the report contains work 
performed by other group members, it should be explicitly stated in the text (e.g., in the Section titles).   
8 DEMONSTRATION  
You are required to demonstrate a working system to your supervisor and 1st reader, showing various features 
and functionalities of your system. You are also required to submit a demo of your software using  one of the 
suggested screen capture and video editing tool.  More details can be found in the “ Student Guidelines: Part 3 
(Final Report and Demo)”. 
9 FINAL REPORT  
More details can be found in the “Student Guidelines: Part 3 (Final Report and Demo)”. 
All students must produce a Final Report according to the guidelines given. It is expected that the last month 
of the project will be mainly concerned with writing and correcting this report, and thus that all programming 
will have been completed before the final drafts of the report are attempted . 

===== PAGE 10 =====
 10 
These guidelines are intended to help you prepare your Final Report in a logical and professional manner. The 
format given in the guidelines must be adhered to, although the content and quantity of information in each 
section will vary according to the project undertaken. 
All final reports on related/joint projects will be individual reports unless a joint submission has been approved 
by the Project Committee at the time of the project proposal. This means that the students working on such 
projects must not duplicate any part of the reports of their colleagues.  
You must remember that your written report is the only part of your project work which can be seen by 
anyone outside CityU, and that you could use it in the future as a document which shows your achievement. It 
may therefore be useful to put a lot of effort into your report. 
The text of your report should: 
• Present material concisely and clearly; 
• Show your understanding of the terminology used; 
• Have references to the literature on the subject; 
• Show your understanding of the problem you have solved; 
• Clearly show the major decisions in how you created your solution, and explain the rationale for 
them. 
It is a good practice to have a documented program listing ready, should it be requested by your Supervisor.  
You must take into account that not every future reader of your report will have the same background 
knowledge of the subject area of your project as you have, and therefore they will appreciate clear 
explanations of what you have done even though it may appear obvious to you and your Supervisor who are 
both very familiar with the context of your work. Diagrams and concrete examples are always very h elpful to 
the general reader. 
Note that particular attention will be paid by your Supervisor and other Readers to any attempt at plagiarism. 
All supervisors have been requested to: 
• Alert students who copy directly from their sources without a proper reference to the University 
regulations governing plagiarism; 
• Ask those students to rewrite their reports before the official submission date, and  
• Report those who have failed to comply to the College Academic Conduct Committee for disciplinary 
action. 
For group projects: each student must write and submit their own Final Report. The Final Report should mainly 
focus on the student’s own work in the group project.  If part of the report contains work performed by other 
group members, it should be explicitly stated in the text (e.g., in the Section headers).  In particular, sections 
that are not the student’s work should be highlighted. 
10 PRESENTATION  
The purpose of the presentation is to provide a summary of your work and to highlight and explain to the 
audience the interesting and/or novel aspects of your solution. It should not be a software demonstration.  
Your presentation should have a clear structure and contain the following contents: 
• Introduction & Background: 
o Motivation and problem significance. 
o Problem statement, objectives, problem scope. 

===== PAGE 11 =====
 11 
o Major alternative solutions and their limitations. 
o Relationship of the project in the context of the previous works, and how the project 
addresses those limitations. 
• System Design & Methodology: 
o The major components of the system design /methodology, their functions, and their 
interactions. 
o Highlight the novel aspects or unique solutions of the system design / methodology. 
• Evaluation and Results: 
o The project result and outcomes. 
o Evaluation of the performance via testing, experiments, or user studies (as appropriate) 
• Reflection and Future Work (optional): 
o What part of the system design did not work as expected? 
o How could the system design be improved? 
• Conclusion 
o A summary the project and important outcomes / results. 
The Language to be used in presentations is English. 
The scheduled time for each presentation session is 20 minutes. It is important to control your timing 
carefully. Normally, your presentation should take around 15 minutes, so that there will be time (about 5 
minutes) for questions and answers at the end of the session. You should discuss the content of the 
presentation with your Supervisor. 
Your presentation will normally be attended by two members of staff - the 1st and 2nd presentation assessors, 
and possibly other interested staff and students. You will be asked questions to clarify points made in the 
presentation and to defend, if necessary, steps taken to solve the problem. Note that your presentation is 
normally the only way for the presentation assessors to know about your project.  
In assessing your performance the following aspects will be given attention by the assessors:  
• You should be well-prepared for the presentation. It is often helpful to have a rehearsal with your 
friends before the real presentation. 
o You should not just read notecards during your presentation, since this shows a lack of 
confidence and preparation. 
• You should be CLEAR, CONCISE, CORRECT and COMPLETE with respect to the delivery of the technical 
content of your project. 
• You should be prepared to handle questions from the audience without losing the track of where you 
are in your presentation - you may defer questions until after the end of your presentation if you 
choose. However, it should be noted that not giving enough time for questions may mean that the 
assessor might miss the opportunity to clear up any important points of misunderstanding.  
 
Updated on Jul 20, 2022, coordinated by Prof. Antoni Chan. 